Envy-You: Neurovascular Unit (NVU) Model
========================================

Neurovascular coupling (NVC), or functional hyperaemia, describes the local vasodilation and-contraction due to neuronal activation. The change in the vessel diameter (vasoreactivity) controls the blood flow and thereby the cerebral supply of oxygen and glucose.

The model includes the cells of the following types: neurons, astrocytes, smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells. Each cell type plays an important specific role in the NVC dynamics. Communication between cells is based on an exchange of ions through pumps and channels. These ion fluxes contribute to changes in cytosolic and intercellular species concentration and cell membrane potentials.

There are several pathways that can lead to vaso-contraction or -dilation which are mediated by different signalling molecules. Neurotransmitters are released by the neurons into the synaptic cleft and can bind to receptors on dendrites of other neurons and astrocytes. This leads to a cascade of chemical reactions and the opening and closing of ion channels which influences the fluxes and concentrations.

Envy-You is a v1.1 model forked from the original NVU [BrainsTrust](https://github.com/brainstrust/envy-you) model written by Richard Brown. [A neurovascular coupling model combining both the Potassium/membrane voltage and the Calcium/EET pathways in the astrocyte.]

Documentation
=============

LaTeX documentation is provided in the `doc` folder. Compile the NVUDocumentation.tex to generate a PDF version. To convert a new MATLAB-generated figure to a *.tikz file set MATLAB directory to the `figures` folder, and run:

    matlab2tikz('your_filename.tikz''height', '\figureheight', 'width', '\figurewidth')

The `figures` folder contains three `matlab2tikz.m` along with the other required `*.m` files.

Citing Envy-You Code
====================

Dormanns, K., van Disseldorp, EMJ., Brown, RG., & David, T. (2015). Neurovascular coupling and the influence of luminal agonists via the endothelium. Journal of Theoretical Biology. 364, 49-70
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022519314004901

How To Run
==========

In NVC_main.m, under parameters to adjust the model select 1 for NVU v1.0 and 2 for NVU1.1. (3 and 4 respectively leave Calcium and EET out of the BK-channel open state equations in NVU1.1) J_PLC can be changed from 0.18 to 0.4 to simulate vasomotion. Run NVC_main.m to generate data, and plot all figures.

Input
-----

TODO: Expected input, if any?

Output
------

TODO: What is that SCV file and what is to be done with with? Where are the column headers?

TODO: All figures generated by plot_all can be saved automatically (uncomment the save_all() line in NVC_main.m).
